how everyone.
So let's continue on.
Do some more practice using exited status.
So I'm going to kid another script which is going to locate a user name on your system.
So skipped is very simple.
I'm going to create.
So basically,
you know,
when you execute the script,
which I'm going to create,
and the starting it will ask you to end a user name.
And once you will enter the user name,
that script is going to check that that particular user is existing on your system or not.
So to check this,
I'm going to use exited staters.
So the logic I'm going to use this one.
We know that whenever the user is created on a box,
it's entries,
you know,
enter into idiocy.
Password file.
So this is the file in which you will see all the users names existing on a system.
So here I am,
grab for the user like s Wilma.
So have simple cabinets and get up for the user.
I'm getting an output.
It means that that particular user is existing on the system.
The user is as what?
My hair Right.
I'm getting some output here,
so let's just check the exit of status.
Exited status is Jiro.
It means that my previous command waas run successful.
Suppose I am searching for a user which is not existing.
Like David.
I'm not getting any outboard because David is not existing.
That's why your entry is not in the CDC password file.
Let's see.
What's the exit status at this time?
Now you can see the exit status is non zero.
Because my last command was not run successfully the same.
You know,
logic.
I'm going to use in mind Saleh school,
which I'm going to create.
So let's get Okay,
So,
first of all,
you know,
I'm going to set a variable here,
so to send the variable like I'm going to use this one,
you're gonna give any name on the hitem specific?
The part off idiocy password.
Fine.
Okay,
Andi,
Now get user name.
So for that,
I'm gonna be used.
Read iPhone p on.
Enter my user name on,
uh,
that I'm going to,
you know,
save it in a file that is,
user.
You could give any name.
So here user is available on which the supplied his name will be saved.
All right.
No,
the next days,
you know,
trying to certain Look it,
use it,
name it.
It is a passport file.
Right?
So how we can do that?
I'm using simple logic.
It is a possibility that I can use this credible This dollar pass De.
Right.
So this is him and me.
Have you can see that on did This is grab hyphen.
I w on did it?
My user name.
That is dollar years of they I do put I'm I don't want to get out,
but I just want to know that output should be like the user is existing on.
That's all right.
So if you if you're doing cat hair,
obviously will get some output.
I don't want to see that out,
but I just want to see in a simple word,
the user is existing.
I'm not that song,
so that if I have nullified right now,
I'm going to check the exit status.
Right.
So here,
I'm gonna be used test.
Come on.
You can put like a status if you called this.
You look like no If test my this status equals zero,
they see here.
If we five this come on.
If it is successfully and I the user existing.
So this dollar question mark would be zero,
and it will be saving to this very well.
If it is not successfully US state us.
This one is going to be some non zero number.
Same.
I'm checking here if task dollars status is equal to zero.
All right,
then,
echo.
Like use it on.
I can put this one phone on the system.
All right.
Else I can put Go user this dollar one not phone on the system to this done.
Let me make it executable.
This one exit to I'm going to exit with this one.
It is asking for the user.
I'm going.
Yes.
Using s with my phone on the system.
I'm going to put this one.
Does it study?
Use endeavoured nor phone in the system.
So what I have used have simply used the administrators here.
All right,
so here you can see that I have used test.
If you don't want to use this one,
you can delete this one on the here.
You can put like this one if you can put this there is one more way.
Both the way is correct.
This one like this dollar question mark is equal to So this is also coming.
So let me show with this as well.
Like not phone Onda.
And I'm giving Sam not existing.
I'm giving not existing use a good phone on the system.
So from their cell for this lecture hope you have understand the concept off exit the
status.
So thanks for watching.
And if you have time,
please,
John video next lecture,
but